
# Final Project: How do you envision the future of communication technology?
We have examined the history of communication technologies ranging from writing to the telegraph, to present-day social media. What will come next?

Research an emerging communication technology or trend and design a product or service that makes use of it. Describe the world the product exists in and how it differs from today. Describe the interplay of the product and society. Develop a narrative: imagine a character who uses the technology. What does their life look like? How is it different from yours? Where does your future fall on a continuum from utopia to dystopia?

This project is meant to engage you in using design as a creative process to address social, cultural, environmental and ethical impacts of technology.

## Method
This project can be completed collaboratively in groups of up to 4 people or independently, as you prefer.
We will have time in class over the next weeks to discuss and work on projects, but the majority of work is expected to take place as weekly homework.
You may complete the project in a medium of your choice but it should demonstrate effort and craft. For example it can be a 3d printed prototype of a physical device, it could be a website or video promoting a service. Your narrative can be text, like a short story or something more inventive, a graphic novel, poster or podcast script for example.

## Deliverables
### Prototype
You will create a prototype or design of the product or service you imagine along with a 1-page (300 words) narrative describing the character who uses it and the world they inhabit.

This creative project is meant to be equivalent to a 10 page final paper. As such it should demonstrate significant research, reflection, and creative effort. You should show an engagement with the readings and discussions we have had throughout the semester as well as original ideas of your own and independent work.

### Final presentations in class
The last week of class will be devoted to showing and discussing final projects. In your presentation you will show your prototype and discuss your research as well as your narrative. In addition to giving a 5 minute presentation of your work you are expected to engage and comment on the work of others. Each presentation will consist of 5 minutes presentation and 5 minutes discussion. Engage the class with a prompt or question during your presentation so it opens conversation.


### Documentation
Submit documentation by the due date to NYU Classes. Documentation should include your 1 page (300 words) narrative and at least a 1 page (300 words) description of what you made and why demonstrating the research completed, as well as 4-5 high resolution images which convey the creative work completed. Submit everything in one PDF with your name (and those of your collaborators if applicable) and project title.

***

#### Assignments
The assignments are listed in newclasses.nyu.edu  
[Overview on the weekly scheduled assignments and talks](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15ZQVsHbdcMrUzVLIkae5IOQ4I0IY2HdLl63t61t5VSo/edit?usp=sharing)  


***
<sup>[&larr; Previous lecture](/files/11.md)|[&uarr; Back to course home page](/README.md)</sup>  
  
<sup>NYU Abu Dhabi ***[Communication and Technology](/README.md)*** by [Joerg Blumtritt](https://jbenno.net) [@jbenno](https://twitter.com/jbenno) - Other classes I teach: [github.com/jbenno](https://github.com/jbenno/teaching/blob/master/README.md)</sup>
